index.md, before:

---
front-matter-title: BHN Data Team Wiki
author: Bradley Wing
last_updated: 2025-09-12
status: active
description: Documentation hub for reporting logic, program workflows, guides, templates, and data team standards
layout: home
permalink: /
---

# Welcome to the BHN Data Team Wiki

This site is the central hub for documenting SQL reporting logic, Power BI modeling, program workflows, and institutional standards maintained by the Data Team. It supports clarity and auditability.

---

## Key Sections

### Data Team Processes

Reusable templates, style guides, workflow references, and change control process  
→ [View Data Team Processes]({{site.baseurl}}/data-team-processes/)

### Reporting Documentation

Report tracker, Quick Reports overview, and reporting standards  
→ [View Reporting Docs]({{site.baseurl}}/reporting/)

### Program-Specific Documentation

Workflows, policies, and shared logic by program  
→ [Explore Program Docs]({{site.baseurl}}/programs/)

### Data Dictionaries

Field definitions, lookup tables, Power BI assets  
→ [View Dictionaries]({{site.baseurl}}/data-dictionaries/)

## Wiki Architecture
→ [View Wiki Architecture]({{site.baseurl}}/wiki-architecture/)

Standards, dependencies, tag-usage index

---

## Tag Index

Browse documentation by theme or function  
→ [Explore Tags]({{site.baseurl}}/tag-reference/)

---

## Contribution Notes

This wiki is version-controlled via GitHub.  
Changes may be proposed via pull requests or submitted to the Data Team for review.

For editing help or repo structure guidelines, see [Contributor Notes]({{site.baseurl}}/contributor-notes/).

---

Commit message:

index.md root-level: Updates main index.md to rename Tag Index to Tag Reference (which reflects the changed role for tags.md relative to the new tag-usage-index.md). Fixes link to CONTRIBUTING.md.

index.md, after:

---
front-matter-title: BHN Data Team Wiki
author: Bradley Wing
last_updated: 2025-09-12
status: active
description: Documentation hub for reporting logic, program workflows, guides, templates, and data team standards
layout: home
permalink: /
---

# Welcome to the BHN Data Team Wiki

This site is the central hub for documenting SQL reporting logic, Power BI modeling, program workflows, and institutional standards maintained by the Data Team. It supports clarity and auditability.

---

## Key Sections

### Data Team Processes

Reusable templates, style guides, workflow references, and change control process  
→ [View Data Team Processes]({{site.baseurl}}/data-team-processes/)

### Reporting Documentation

Report tracker, Quick Reports overview, and reporting standards  
→ [View Reporting Docs]({{site.baseurl}}/reporting/)

### Program-Specific Documentation

Workflows, policies, and shared logic by program  
→ [Explore Program Docs]({{site.baseurl}}/programs/)

### Data Dictionaries

Field definitions, lookup tables, Power BI assets  
→ [View Dictionaries]({{site.baseurl}}/data-dictionaries/)

## Wiki Architecture

Standards documentation, tag reference and usage index, and wiki configuration details
→ [View Wiki Architecture]({{site.baseurl}}/wiki-architecture/)

---

## Tag Reference

Browse documentation by theme or function  
→ [Explore Tags]({{site.baseurl}}/tag-reference/)

---

## Contribution Notes

This wiki is version-controlled via GitHub.  
Changes may be proposed via pull requests or submitted to the Data Team for review.

For editing help or repo structure guidelines, see [Contributor Notes](https://github.com/Behavioral-Health-Network/BHN-Data-Team-Wiki/blob/f74312d945377dbfca899e0286142830affcef43/CONTRIBUTING.md).

---
