docs/wiki-architecture/index.md, before:

---
front-matter-title: Wiki Architecture
layout: home
permalink: /wiki-architecture/
nav_order: 5
---

<!-- Folder-level landing page for /docs/wiki-architecture/ -->

# Wiki Architecture

This section includes documentation of core dependencies, configuration logic, and architectural quirks of the BHN Data Team Wiki. It also includes the `Tag Usage Index`, which documents where tags are used.

- [Documentation Standards]({{site.baseurl}}/documentation-standards/) - Reference guide for frontmatter schema, Markdown conventions, and changelog standards
- [Reporting Standards]({{site.baseurl}}/reporting-standards/) — Required structures, naming, and query scope guidance
- [Data Dictionary Standards]({{site.baseurl}}/data-dictionary-standards/) - Field-level authoring guide for internal and shareable data dictionaries
- [Tag Usage Index]({{site.baseurl}}/tag-usage-index/) - Index of tags used throughout the wiki with links to tagged files
- [Sidebar Configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/sidebar-config/) - How sidebar navigation is governed across the BHN documentation ecosystem
- [Dependencies]({{site.baseurl}}/dependencies/)

## Changelog

- **2025-09-23**: Updates the links to documents stored in `/wiki-architecture/`.
- **2025-09-22**: Adds `nav_order:` field and comment.
- **2025-09-21**: Renames `front-matter-title:` to `Wiki Architecture` because the `permalink:` value had been added in error.
- **2025-09-20**: Adds initial Markdown file.

Commit message:

index.md non-root: Updates the description to indicate that the section includes standards documentation.

docs/wiki-architecture/index.md, after:

---
front-matter-title: Wiki Architecture
layout: home
permalink: /wiki-architecture/
nav_order: 5
---

<!-- Folder-level landing page for /docs/wiki-architecture/ -->

# Wiki Architecture

This section includes documentation of various standards, core dependencies, configuration logic, and architectural quirks of the BHN Data Team Wiki. It also includes the `Tag Usage Index`, which documents where tags are used.

- [Documentation Standards]({{site.baseurl}}/documentation-standards/) - Reference guide for frontmatter schema, Markdown conventions, and changelog standards
- [Reporting Standards]({{site.baseurl}}/reporting-standards/) — Required structures, naming, and query scope guidance
- [Data Dictionary Standards]({{site.baseurl}}/data-dictionary-standards/) - Field-level authoring guide for internal and shareable data dictionaries
- [Tag Usage Index]({{site.baseurl}}/tag-usage-index/) - Index of tags used throughout the wiki with links to tagged files
- [Sidebar Configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/sidebar-config/) - How sidebar navigation is governed across the BHN documentation ecosystem
- [Dependencies]({{site.baseurl}}/dependencies/)

## Changelog

-**2025-09-30**: Updates the Wiki Architecture section to indicate that this section contains various standards documents.
- **2025-09-23**: Updates the links to documents stored in `/wiki-architecture/`.
- **2025-09-22**: Adds `nav_order:` field and comment.
- **2025-09-21**: Renames `front-matter-title:` to `Wiki Architecture` because the `permalink:` value had been added in error.
- **2025-09-20**: Adds initial Markdown file.
