docs/wiki-architecture/reporting-standards.md, before:

---
front-matter-title: Reporting Standards  
author: Bradley Wing  
last_updated: 2025-09-22
status: active  
program_scope: none
programs:
  - none
tags:
  - data-team-facing
  - documentation
  - documentation-standards
permalink: /reporting-standards/
layout: home
nav_order: 1
parent: Reporting Documentation
reviewed-by:
  - name: Bradley Wing
  - date: 2025-09-11
last_reviewed: 2025-09-11
schema_version: 1.0  
---

# Reporting Standards

This page documents conventions for:

- R report writing
- SQL query construction:
  - table aliasing
  - join logic
  - field naming
- Power BI schema and report design.

These standards support clarity, auditability, and consistency across all reporting workflows.

---

## R Child Doc Standards

Prefer 0|1 instead of 'No'|'Yes'.

## SQL Standardized Table Aliases

### Table Alias Matrix

The following matrix defines standardized aliases for all commonly used tables across programs. These aliases must be used in SQL queries to ensure consistency and reduce ambiguity.

<details>
<summary><strong>Table Aliases</strong></summary>

<div markdown="1">

| Table Source   | Table Name                         | Alias          | View on Master Table | View Not on Master Table | Primary Join Fields(s) |
|----------------|------------------------------------|----------------|----------------------|--------------------------|------------------------|
| ALL            | ADA_SU_AGENCY                      | ADA            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | ADA_SU_STATUS                      | CIMOR_ADA      | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CASENOTEDETAIL                     | CN             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CIMOR_STATUS                       | CIMOR_STATUS   | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CLIENT                             | C              | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CLIENTSTATUS                       | S              | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CLOSINGREASON                      | CR             | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CMHC_AGENCY                        | CMHC           | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CONTACTTYPE                        | CT             | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | EDUCATIONLEVEL                     | EDLEVEL        | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | EMPOLOYMENTSTATUS                  | EMPSTATUS      | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | GENDER                             | G              | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | HRFORM                             | HR             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | MANAGED_MEDICAID_PROVIDER          | MMP            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | MASTERSERVICE                      | MS             | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PATHWAY                            | PWY            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PATHWAYCLIENT                      | PC             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PATHWAYEVENT                       | PE             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PATHWAYEVENTCLIENT                 | PEC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PAYOR_SOURCE                       | PAY            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PROGRAM_REFERRAL_SOURCES           | PRS            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PROVIDER                           | P              | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PROVIDERHIERARCHY                  | PH             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PROVIDERPLACEMENT                  | PP             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | Q_CLIENT                           | C              | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ALL            | Q_CLIENTPASSPORT                   | CP             | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ALL            | Q_PLACEMENT_PROGRAM_WORKER_HISTORY | WORKER_HISTORY | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ALL            | RACE                               | R              | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | SERVICESITE                        | SP             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | USERCASELOAD                       | CL             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | BCR_CHURCHES                       | CHURCH         | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | BCR_PROGRAM_PARTICIPATION          | PART           | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRCLIENTCOUNSELINGSESSIONS      | BCC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCREVENT                         | EVENT          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRGRANT                         | BCRGRANT       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRINITIALCONTACT                | BIC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRPRESENTINGCONCERNS            | BPC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRREFERRAL                      | BREF           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRREFERRALSPLACED               | BRP            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_ACTIVE_HOUSING_STATUS        | BHOUSE         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_ACTIVE_PAYOR_SOURCE          | BPAY           | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_CLIENT                       | BCLIENT        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_PATHCLIENT_ENROLLMENTS       | BENROLL        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_PATHWAY_FORM_DOCSERNOS       | BPF            | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| Complex Care   | PWCOMPLEXCAREROSTER                | ROSTER         | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| Complex Care   | Q_COMPLEX_CARE_ROSTER              | ROSTER         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | COMMUNITY_REFERRAL_SOURCES         | CRS            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | EPICC_EMS_FIRE_DISTRICT            | EMS            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | EPICC_PROGRAM_PARTICIPATION        | EPP            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | EPICC_SU_TX_AGENCY                 | SUTXAGENCY     | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCINITIALCONTACT              | EIC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCREENGAGEMENTFORM            | REENGAGE       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCREFERRAL                    | EREF           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCSIXMONTHFOLLOWUP            | ESIXM          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCSORPILOTCESCLIENTCONTACT    | ESPCC          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCTHIRTYDAYFOLLOWUP           | ETHIRTYD       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCTHREEMONTHFOLLOWUP          | ETHREEM        | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCTWOWEEKFOLLOWUP             | ETWOW          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWSUBROADTREATMENTAGENCY           | SUTX           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_ACTIVE_HOUSING_STATUS      | EHOUSE         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_ACTIVE_PAYOR_SOURCE        | EPAY           | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_CLIENT                     | ECLIENT        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_LATEST_SU_TX_AGENCY        | ESUTX          | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_PATHCLIENT_ENROLLMENTS     | EENROLL        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_PATHWAY_FORM_DOCSERNOS     | EPF            | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_REENGAGE                   | REENGAGE       | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | PWERECLIENTNEEDS                   | ERENEEDS       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_BHS                          | EREBHS         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_CLIENT                       | ERECLIENT      | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_CLIENT_NEEDS                 | ERENEEDS       | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_IHNA                         | EREIHNA        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_HOSPITAL_VISIT_NOTE          | EREHOSP        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_PATHCLIENT_ENROLLMENTS       | EREENROLL      | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_PATHWAY_FORM_DOCSERNOS       | EREPF          | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_REFERRAL                     | EREREF         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_SIX_MONTH                    | ERESIXM        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_THREE-MONTH                  | ERETHREEM      | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYERE30DAYFOLLOWUPTP              | YTHIRTYD       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYERE3MONTHFOLLOWUPTP             | YTHREEM        | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYERE6MONTHFOLLOWUPTP             | YSIXM          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYEREBEHAVIORALHEALTHSERVICESTP   | YBHS           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYERECAREGIVERPROGRAMNEEDS        | CARE           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYEREHOSPITALVISITNOTE            | HOSP           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYEREINITIALCONTACT               | YIA            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYEREREFERRAL                     | YREF           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_ACTIVE_HOUSING_STATUS       | YHOUSE         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_ACTIVE_PAYOR_SOURCE         | YPAY           | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_CLIENT                      | YCLIENT        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_CLIENT_NEEDS                | YCLIENTNEEDS   | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_CAREGIVER_NEEDS             | YCARENEEDS     | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_PATHCLIENT_ENROLLMENTS      | YENROLL        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_PATHWAY_FORM_DOCSERNOS      | YPF            | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | YERE_TYPE_OF_SCHOOL_DISCIPLINE     | YTSD           | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ...            | ...                                | ...            | ...                  | ...                      | ...                    |

> For additional guidance on join logic, see [Documentation Standards]({{site.baseurl}}//documentation-standards/).

</div>
</details>

---

### Usage Notes

- **Alias Consistency**: All queries must use the aliases defined above. Avoid ad hoc or legacy aliases.
- **View Flags**:
  - `View on Master Table = 1` indicates an alias for a master table that may be queried on front-end HTML forms when entering fields and in queries.
  - `View Not on Master Table = 1` indicates the table is only available in a view.
- **Program-Specific Tables**: Tables scoped to a specific program (e.g., BCR) are grouped accordingly.

---

### Future Enhancements

- Add primary join fields (e.g. `DOCSERNO`, `CLIENT_NUMBER`)
- Link to sample queries using standardized aliases
- Automate alias validation in SQL linting tools

## Changelog

- **2025-09-23**: Moves `reporting-standards.md` from `/reporting/` to `/wiki-architecture/` to centralize standards documentation for enhanced discoverability through centralization in one folder. Fixes link to the moved `documentation-standards.md`.
- **2025-09-22**: Adds `program_scope:`, `programs:`, `nav_order:` and `parent:` fields to frontmatter. Adds `<div markdown="1"></div>` element to each `<details></details>` element throughout the page to satisfy the Kramdown Markdown editor used by Jekyll so that the collapsible sections do not break the Markdown within them. Adds `data-team-facing` `documentation`, and `documentation-standards` tags to frontmatter. Fixes link to `/documentation-standards/`.
- **2025-09-19**: Adds `layout:` field to frontmatter.
- **2025-09-18**: Adds `Q_PLACEMENT_PROGRAM_WORKER_HISTORY | WORKER_HISTORY` table alias.
- **2025-09-16**: Updates frontmatter; adds table aliases for `Q_YERE_CLIENT_NEEDS` and `Q_YERE_CAREGIVER_NEEDS`.
- **2025-09-12**: Adds `Q_ERE_HOSPITAL_VISIT_NOTE` table alias.
- **2025-09-10**: Adds `Q_EPICC_REENGAGE` table alias.
- **2025-08-15**: Adds initial commmit; adds frontmatter.
- **2025-08-14**: Adds collapsible <details> around `Table Aliases` matrix.
- **2025-08-10**: Reformats sections and the `Table Aliases` matrix.
- **2025-08-09**: Adds substantial content, including a Markdown table for the table aliases.
- **2025-07-28**: Adds Markdown file.

Commit message:

reporing-standards.md: Moves `reporting-standards.md` from `/reporting/` to `/wiki-architecture/` to centralize standards documentation for enhanced discoverability through centralization in one folder. Fixes link to the moved `documentation-standards.md`.

docs/wiki-architecture/reporting-standards.md, after:

---
front-matter-title: Reporting Standards  
author: Bradley Wing  
last_updated: 2025-09-22
status: active  
program_scope: none
programs:
  - none
tags:
  - data-team-facing
  - documentation
  - documentation-standards
permalink: /reporting-standards/
layout: home
nav_order: 3
parent: Wiki Architecture
reviewed-by:
  - name: Bradley Wing
  - date: 2025-09-11
last_reviewed: 2025-09-11
schema_version: 1.0  
---

# Reporting Standards

This page documents conventions for:

- R report writing
- SQL query construction:
  - table aliasing
  - join logic
  - field naming
- Power BI schema and report design.

These standards support clarity, auditability, and consistency across all reporting workflows.

---

## R Child Doc Standards

Prefer `0|1` instead of `'No'|'Yes'`.

## SQL Standardized Table Aliases

### Table Alias Matrix

The following matrix defines standardized aliases for all commonly used tables across programs. These aliases must be used in SQL queries to ensure consistency and reduce ambiguity.

<details>
<summary><strong>Table Aliases</strong></summary>

<div markdown="1">

| Table Source   | Table Name                         | Alias          | View on Master Table | View Not on Master Table | Primary Join Fields(s) |
|----------------|------------------------------------|----------------|----------------------|--------------------------|------------------------|
| ALL            | ADA_SU_AGENCY                      | ADA            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | ADA_SU_STATUS                      | CIMOR_ADA      | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CASENOTEDETAIL                     | CN             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CIMOR_STATUS                       | CIMOR_STATUS   | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CLIENT                             | C              | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CLIENTSTATUS                       | S              | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CLOSINGREASON                      | CR             | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CMHC_AGENCY                        | CMHC           | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | CONTACTTYPE                        | CT             | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | EDUCATIONLEVEL                     | EDLEVEL        | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | EMPOLOYMENTSTATUS                  | EMPSTATUS      | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | GENDER                             | G              | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | HRFORM                             | HR             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | MANAGED_MEDICAID_PROVIDER          | MMP            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | MASTERSERVICE                      | MS             | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PATHWAY                            | PWY            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PATHWAYCLIENT                      | PC             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PATHWAYEVENT                       | PE             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PATHWAYEVENTCLIENT                 | PEC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PAYOR_SOURCE                       | PAY            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PROGRAM_REFERRAL_SOURCES           | PRS            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PROVIDER                           | P              | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PROVIDERHIERARCHY                  | PH             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | PROVIDERPLACEMENT                  | PP             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | Q_CLIENT                           | C              | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ALL            | Q_CLIENTPASSPORT                   | CP             | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ALL            | Q_PLACEMENT_PROGRAM_WORKER_HISTORY | WORKER_HISTORY | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ALL            | RACE                               | R              | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | SERVICESITE                        | SP             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ALL            | USERCASELOAD                       | CL             | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | BCR_CHURCHES                       | CHURCH         | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | BCR_PROGRAM_PARTICIPATION          | PART           | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRCLIENTCOUNSELINGSESSIONS      | BCC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCREVENT                         | EVENT          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRGRANT                         | BCRGRANT       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRINITIALCONTACT                | BIC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRPRESENTINGCONCERNS            | BPC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRREFERRAL                      | BREF           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | PWBCRREFERRALSPLACED               | BRP            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_ACTIVE_HOUSING_STATUS        | BHOUSE         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_ACTIVE_PAYOR_SOURCE          | BPAY           | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_CLIENT                       | BCLIENT        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_PATHCLIENT_ENROLLMENTS       | BENROLL        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| BCR            | Q_BCR_PATHWAY_FORM_DOCSERNOS       | BPF            | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| Complex Care   | PWCOMPLEXCAREROSTER                | ROSTER         | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| Complex Care   | Q_COMPLEX_CARE_ROSTER              | ROSTER         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | COMMUNITY_REFERRAL_SOURCES         | CRS            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | EPICC_EMS_FIRE_DISTRICT            | EMS            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | EPICC_PROGRAM_PARTICIPATION        | EPP            | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | EPICC_SU_TX_AGENCY                 | SUTXAGENCY     | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCINITIALCONTACT              | EIC            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCREENGAGEMENTFORM            | REENGAGE       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCREFERRAL                    | EREF           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCSIXMONTHFOLLOWUP            | ESIXM          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCSORPILOTCESCLIENTCONTACT    | ESPCC          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCTHIRTYDAYFOLLOWUP           | ETHIRTYD       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCTHREEMONTHFOLLOWUP          | ETHREEM        | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWEPICCTWOWEEKFOLLOWUP             | ETWOW          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | PWSUBROADTREATMENTAGENCY           | SUTX           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_ACTIVE_HOUSING_STATUS      | EHOUSE         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_ACTIVE_PAYOR_SOURCE        | EPAY           | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_CLIENT                     | ECLIENT        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_LATEST_SU_TX_AGENCY        | ESUTX          | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_PATHCLIENT_ENROLLMENTS     | EENROLL        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_PATHWAY_FORM_DOCSERNOS     | EPF            | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| EPICC          | Q_EPICC_REENGAGE                   | REENGAGE       | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | PWERECLIENTNEEDS                   | ERENEEDS       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_BHS                          | EREBHS         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_CLIENT                       | ERECLIENT      | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_CLIENT_NEEDS                 | ERENEEDS       | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_IHNA                         | EREIHNA        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_HOSPITAL_VISIT_NOTE          | EREHOSP        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_PATHCLIENT_ENROLLMENTS       | EREENROLL      | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_PATHWAY_FORM_DOCSERNOS       | EREPF          | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_REFERRAL                     | EREREF         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_SIX_MONTH                    | ERESIXM        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| ERE            | Q_ERE_THREE-MONTH                  | ERETHREEM      | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYERE30DAYFOLLOWUPTP              | YTHIRTYD       | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYERE3MONTHFOLLOWUPTP             | YTHREEM        | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYERE6MONTHFOLLOWUPTP             | YSIXM          | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYEREBEHAVIORALHEALTHSERVICESTP   | YBHS           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYERECAREGIVERPROGRAMNEEDS        | CARE           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYEREHOSPITALVISITNOTE            | HOSP           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYEREINITIALCONTACT               | YIA            | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | PWYEREREFERRAL                     | YREF           | 0                    | 0                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_ACTIVE_HOUSING_STATUS       | YHOUSE         | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_ACTIVE_PAYOR_SOURCE         | YPAY           | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_CLIENT                      | YCLIENT        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_CLIENT_NEEDS                | YCLIENTNEEDS   | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_CAREGIVER_NEEDS             | YCARENEEDS     | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_PATHCLIENT_ENROLLMENTS      | YENROLL        | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | Q_YERE_PATHWAY_FORM_DOCSERNOS      | YPF            | 0                    | 1                        |                        |
| YERE           | YERE_TYPE_OF_SCHOOL_DISCIPLINE     | YTSD           | 1                    | 0                        |                        |
| ...            | ...                                | ...            | ...                  | ...                      | ...                    |

> For additional guidance on join logic, see [Documentation Standards]({{site.baseurl}}//documentation-standards/).

</div>
</details>

---

### Usage Notes

- **Alias Consistency**: All queries must use the aliases defined above. Avoid ad hoc or legacy aliases.
- **View Flags**:
  - `View on Master Table = 1` indicates an alias for a master table that may be queried on front-end HTML forms when entering fields and in queries.
  - `View Not on Master Table = 1` indicates the table is only available in a view.
- **Program-Specific Tables**: Tables scoped to a specific program (e.g., BCR) are grouped accordingly.

---

### Future Enhancements

- Add primary join fields (e.g. `DOCSERNO`, `CLIENT_NUMBER`)
- Link to sample queries using standardized aliases
- Automate alias validation in SQL linting tools

## Related Standards

- [Data Dictionary Standards]({{site.baseurl}}/data-dictionary-standards/)
- [Documentation Standards]({{site.baseurl}}/documentation-standards/)
- [Tag Reference]({{site.baseurl}}/tag-reference/)

> **Tip**: See also [Sidebar Configuration]({{site.baseurl}}/sidebar-config/) for information on how to update `_navigation.yaml` so that any new page is added to the sidebar.

## Changelog

- **2025-09-26**: Updates `nav_order:` field in the frontmatter. The pages in /wiki-architecture/ can't all be `1`! Updates `parent:` field to `/wiki-architecture/`. Adds `Related Standards` section.
- **2025-09-23**: Moves `reporting-standards.md` from `/reporting/` to `/wiki-architecture/` to centralize standards documentation for enhanced discoverability through centralization in one folder. Fixes link to the moved `documentation-standards.md`.
- **2025-09-22**: Adds `program_scope:`, `programs:`, `nav_order:` and `parent:` fields to frontmatter. Adds `<div markdown="1"></div>` element to each `<details></details>` element throughout the page to satisfy the Kramdown Markdown editor used by Jekyll so that the collapsible sections do not break the Markdown within them. Adds `data-team-facing` `documentation`, and `documentation-standards` tags to frontmatter. Fixes link to `/documentation-standards/`.
- **2025-09-19**: Adds `layout:` field to frontmatter.
- **2025-09-18**: Adds `Q_PLACEMENT_PROGRAM_WORKER_HISTORY | WORKER_HISTORY` table alias.
- **2025-09-16**: Updates frontmatter; adds table aliases for `Q_YERE_CLIENT_NEEDS` and `Q_YERE_CAREGIVER_NEEDS`.
- **2025-09-12**: Adds `Q_ERE_HOSPITAL_VISIT_NOTE` table alias.
- **2025-09-10**: Adds `Q_EPICC_REENGAGE` table alias.
- **2025-08-15**: Adds initial commmit; adds frontmatter.
- **2025-08-14**: Adds collapsible <details> around `Table Aliases` matrix.
- **2025-08-10**: Reformats sections and the `Table Aliases` matrix.
- **2025-08-09**: Adds substantial content, including a Markdown table for the table aliases.
- **2025-07-28**: Adds Markdown file.
